Glossary Update (#176)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/glossary.md

## Alexander

The fourth proof of concept (PoC-4) testnet for Polkadot.

## Block

A collection of data, such as transactions, that together indicates a state transition of the blockchain.

## Block explorer

An application that allows a user to explore the different blocks on a blockchain.

## BLS

Boneh-Lynn-Shacham (BLS) signatures have slow signing, very slow verification, require slow and much less secure pairing friendly curves, and tend towards dangerous malleability. Yet, BLS permits a diverse array of signature aggregation options far beyond any other known signature scheme, which makes BLS a preferred scheme for voting in consensus algorithms and for threshold signatures.

## Bonding

> A process by which tokens can be "frozen" in exchange for some other benefit. For example, taking is a form of bonding for which you receive rewards in exchange for securing the network. You can also bond tokens in exchange for a parachain slot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A process by which tokens can be "frozen" in exchange for some other benefit. For example, staking is a form of bonding for which you receive rewards in exchange for securing the network. You can also bond tokens in exchange for a parachain slot.
```

The runtime environment in which a runtime module can be executed. Parachains must support the Polkadot Runtime Environment - external chains that do not will have to use a bridge.

## Proof of Stake (PoS)

A method of selecting participation in a consensus system, in which participants are chosen based on how many tokens they have at stake (at risk of loss due to misbehavior). Normally, Proof-of-Stake systems limit the number of participants.

## Proof of Validity

A proof produced by parachain collators. Based on this proof and the parachain registry, a validator can verify that a parachain has properly executed its state transition function. Proofs of Validity go into the relay chain blocks.

## Proof of Work (PoW)

A method of selecting participants in a consensus system, typically the longest chain rule, in which participants try to solve a puzzle like finding a partial pre-image of a hash. Normally, a Proof-of-Work system can have any number of participants.

## Proposal

A potential function call to be voted on in a referendum. Proposals modify the behavior of the Polkadot network, from minor parameter tuning all the way up to replacing the runtime code.

## Protocol

> A system of rules that allows two or more entities of a communications system to transmit information. The protocol defines the rules, syntax, semantics, and synchronization of communication and possible recovery methods.

Reviewer: Much to my dismay, our new style guide forbids the Oxford comma.

```suggestion
A system of rules that allows two or more entities of a communications system to transmit information. The protocol defines the rules, syntax, semantics and synchronization of communication and possible recovery methods.
```

## Staking

The act of bonding tokens (for Polkadot, DOTs) which are put up as "collateral" for a chance to produce a valid block (and thus obtain a block reward). Validators and nominators stake their DOTs in order to secure the network.

## State transition function

A function that describes how the state of a blockchain can be transformed. For example, it may describe how tokens can be transferred from one account to another.

## Substrate

> A modular framework for building blockchains. Polkadot is build using Substrate. Chains built with Substrate will be easy to connect as parachains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A modular framework for building blockchains. Polkadot is built using Substrate. Chains built with Substrate will be easy to connect as parachains.
```

## Tabling

In Polkadot governance, bringing a proposal to a vote via referendum. Note that this is the British meaning of "tabling", which is different than the US version, which means "to postpone" a measure.

## Transaction

> An extrinsic that is signed. Transactions are gossiped on the network and incur a transaction fee. Transactions are "provably true", unlike inherents. For example, one can prove that Alice wants to send funds to Bob grace of her signature on a transfer-funds message with her private key.

Reviewer: Bob grace. Something is missing

Author: This is a valid sentence, but I understand it might not be natural to everyone.
```suggestion
An extrinsic that is signed. Transactions are gossiped on the network and incur a transaction fee. Transactions are "provably true", unlike inherents. For example, one can prove that Alice wants to send funds to Bob by the fact that she signed a transfer-funds message with her private key.
```

## Validator

> A node that secures the relay chain by staking DOTs, validating proofs from collators on parachains, and voting on consensus along with other validators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A node that secures the relay chain by staking DOTs, validating proofs from collators on parachains and voting on consensus along with other validators.
```
